DOCS-221 Installing and Uninstalling CLC (#94)
hazelcast/hazelcast-commandline-client: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/install-clc.adoc

** https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/install-git[Git]
** The https://www.gnu.org/software/make/[`make`] utility
** https://go.dev/doc/install[Go v1.18] or newer

== Installing CLC

You can install the Hazelcast CLC locally on Linux and macOS.

[tabs] 
==== 
Installer Script:: 
+ 
-- 
[source,bash]
----
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/hazelcast/hazelcast-commandline-client/main/scripts/install.sh | bash
----
--

Homebrew::
+
[source,bash]
----
brew tap hazelcast/homebrew-hz
brew install hazelcast-commandline-client
----

Build from Source::
+
[source,bash]
----
. Copy the CLC's GitHub repository using the following `git` command onto your machine.
+
[source,shell]
----
git clone https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast-commandline-client.git
----
. Change to the copied repository directory.
+
[source,shell]
----
cd hazelcast-commandline-client
----
. Run the following command to build CLC.
+
[source,shell]
----
make
----
----
====

NOTE: To take advantage of auto-completion support, follow the instructions that appear during installation.

> == Uninstalling

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Uninstalling Hazelcast CLC
```

> = Installing Hazelcast CLC

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Installing the Hazelcast CLC
```

> :description: The Hazelcast Command-Line Client (CLC) is available to install in macOS, Linux and Windows environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:description: The Hazelcast Command-Line Client (CLC) is available to install in macOS, Linux, and Windows environments.
```

// See https://docs.hazelcast.com/hazelcast/5.2-snapshot/clients/clc#installing-the-hazelcast-clc

> {description} You can install CLC using either of the following ways:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{description} You can install the Hazelcast CLC, using one of the following:
```

* Homebrew (recommended)

> * Installer script

Reviewer: It seems that we have specific instructions and options, depending on the OS. I think we should focus on the operating system. Users will want to see all the options for their OS before choosing a method.

Maybe the headings should be Installing on Windows, Installing on Linux, Installing on macOS. That way, users can see in the ToC that we support their OS and they can jump to the content they need. Then we don't need the 'Before you begin'. For example, under 'Installing on Linux' we might have tabs for Homebrew, Install Script, and Manual. The first step for Homebrew could be:

' 1. Make sure that you have Homebrew installed.' with a link to the Homebrew install page and a code snippet that shows how to check if it's installed.

==== 
Installer Script:: 
+ 
-- 
Installer script uses `curl` which is readily available on macOS computers.
For Linux, follow the instructions https://everything.curl.dev/get/linux[here] if it is not already installed.
--

Homebrew::
+
Follow the instructions https://docs.brew.sh/Installation[here] if it is not already installed on your macOS or Linux computer.

Build from Source::
+
If you prefer to install CLC by building it from its source on GitHub, you need to have the following installed on your machine:

* https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/install-git[Git]
* The https://www.gnu.org/software/make/[`make`] utility
* https://go.dev/doc/install[Go v1.18] or newer
====

== Installing Hazelcast CLC

You can install the Hazelcast CLC locally on macOS, Linux, and Windows environments.

[tabs] 
==== 
Installer Script (macOS, Linux):: 
+ 
-- 
[source,bash]
----
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/hazelcast/hazelcast-commandline-client/main/scripts/install.sh | bash
----
--

Installer (Windows)::
+
[source,bash]
----
----

Homebrew::
+
[source,bash]
----
brew tap hazelcast/homebrew-hz
brew install hazelcast-commandline-client
----

Build from Source::
+
[source,bash]
----

> . Copy the CLC's GitHub repository using the following `git` command onto your machine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Clone the GitHub repository.
```

+
[source,shell]
----
git clone https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast-commandline-client.git
----

> . Change to the copied repository directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Change into the `hazelcast-commandline-client` directory.
```

+
[source,shell]
----
cd hazelcast-commandline-client
----
. Run the following command to build CLC.
+
[source,shell]
----
make
----

> ----

Reviewer: Check the formatting here on a local preview of the site. It looks strange.

====

NOTE: To take advantage of auto-completion support, follow the instructions that appear during installation.

> == Uninstalling Hazelcast CLC

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Uninstalling the Hazelcast CLC
```

> You can choose the uninstallation option that corresponds to the installation method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Choose the option that corresponds to your installation method.
```

[tabs] 
==== 
Installer Script (macOS, Linux):: 
+ 
-- 
[source,bash]
----
~/.local/share/hz-cli/bin/uninstall.sh
----
--

Installer (Windows)::
+
[source,bash]
----
----

Homebrew::
+
[source,bash]
----
brew uninstall hazelcast-commandline-client
brew untap hazelcast/homebrew-hz
----

Source::
+

> Simply remove the copied repository directory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Delete the `hazelcast-commandline-client` directory.
```

[tabs] 
==== 
Supported Operating Systems:: 
+ 
-- 
* Ubuntu 18.04 or newer
* MacOS 12 or newer
* Windows 10 or newer
--

Installer Script:: 
+ 
-- 
Installer script uses `curl` which is readily available on macOS computers.
For Linux, follow the instructions https://everything.curl.dev/get/linux[here] if it is not already installed.
--

Homebrew::
+
Follow the instructions https://docs.brew.sh/Installation[here] if it is not already installed on your macOS or Linux computer.

Build from Source::
+
If you prefer to install CLC by building it from its source on GitHub, you need to have the following installed on your machine:

* https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/install-git[Git]
* https://www.gnu.org/software/make/[GNU Make]
* https://go.dev/doc/install[Go v1.18] or newer
====

== Installing Hazelcast CLC

You can install the Hazelcast CLC locally on macOS, Linux, and Windows environments.

[tabs] 
==== 
Installer Script (macOS, Linux):: 
+ 
-- 
[source,bash]
----
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/hazelcast/hazelcast-commandline-client/main/scripts/install.sh | bash
----
--

Installer (Windows)::
+

> The installer for Windows is located https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast-commandline-client/releases[here].

Reviewer 2: Suggest that descriptive link text is used rather than [here] in all cases.

Author: Windows related content will be added once #92 is merged. Noted the comments, thank you Angela.

Download the `hazecast-clc.exe` file, run it and follow the instructions on the installation wizard.

Homebrew::
+
[source,bash]
----
brew tap hazelcast/homebrew-hz
brew install hazelcast-commandline-client
----

Build from Source::
+
. Clone the GitHub repository.
+
[source,shell]
----
git clone https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast-commandline-client.git
----
. Change into the `hazelcast-commandline-client` directory.
+
[source,shell]
----
cd hazelcast-commandline-client
----
. Run the following command to build CLC.
+
[source,shell]
----
make
----
====

NOTE: To take advantage of auto-completion support, follow the instructions that appear during installation.

== Uninstalling the Hazelcast CLC

Choose the option that corresponds to your installation method.

[tabs] 
==== 
Installer Script (macOS, Linux):: 
+ 
-- 
[source,bash]
----
~/.local/share/hz-cli/bin/uninstall.sh
----
--

Installer (Windows)::
+
. Go to **Start menu** -> **Windows Settings** -> **Apps**.
. Find Hazelcast CLC in the list.

> . Right click on it and select **Uninstall**.

Reviewer 2: Right-click

= Installing the Hazelcast CLC
:description: The Hazelcast Command-Line Client (CLC) is available to install in macOS, Linux, and Windows environments.

// See https://docs.hazelcast.com/hazelcast/5.2-snapshot/clients/clc#installing-the-hazelcast-clc

{description} You can install the Hazelcast CLC, using one of the following:

* Homebrew (recommended)
* Installer script
* Building from source

== Installing on macOS

The Hazelcast CLC is supported on macOS 12 or newer versions.

[tabs] 
==== 
Installer Script::
+
--
macOS 12 or newer comes with cURL bundled with the operating system. You can directly run the following command.

[source,bash]
----
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/hazelcast/hazelcast-commandline-client/main/scripts/install.sh | bash
----
--

Homebrew::
+
. Make sure Homebrew is installed using the following command.
+
[source,bash]
----
brew -v
----
+

> If installed, you'll get its version information. Otherwise, you'll receive an error stating the command is not found; install it following the instructions https://docs.brew.sh/Installation[here].

Reviewer: We should avoid using 'here' as link text. It isn't useful and it's not accessible for screen readers. The link text should describe the link resource. For example:

`If you see version information, Homebrew is installed. If you don't see version information, Homebrew is not installed. Install it now by following the link:https://docs.brew.sh/Installation[Homebrew documentation].

Reviewer: I see you updated this example. thanks. The document still contains other links that use 'here' for the link text. Could you update those as well?
